---
author: "Codie Sanchez"
handle: "@Codie_Sanchez"
source: "https://twitter.com/Codie_Sanchez/status/1607746659227688962"
date: December 27, 2022 9:34 PM
fetched: December 29, 2022 9:02 PM
likes: 4892
retweets: 832
replies: 86
---
Codie Sanchez ([@Codie_Sanchez](https://twitter.com/Codie_Sanchez)) - December 27, 2022 9:34 PM

Being a leader is the hardest job I’ve ever had. 

Leadership principles I know at 32, I wish I knew at 22:

You can be great at business,

But terrible at leading.

What I’ve learned:

Harsh truth: No one cares about your business as much as you do.

The best leaders fire themselves from as many roles as possible.

Track team and individual KPIs. If you can't tell who is in charge, no one is.

Do everything you can to decrease meetings. 
1 hour x 16 employees = 2 days lost

NEED a meeting? Use an agenda structure. Constantly improve it. [pic.twitter.com/7SbSy3IFu4](https://twitter.com/Codie_Sanchez/status/1607746678882242565/photo/1)

No one should ever be surprised when you fire them.

Firing should mean encouraging them to do the thing they actually should do.

Micromanaging means you hired wrong.

Poor performance isn’t your employee’s problem. It’s yours.

Hiring for the right values is the antidote to micromanagement.

By yourself, you will never scale.

Two words to turn a SMB into a big player: Decentralized. Leadership.

You’re never too good for a mentor.

Keep 3 mentors: the billionaire to your millionaire, a peer you can learn with, & an up-and-comer with hustle.

Be willing to repeat yourself. In fact, count on it.

Underrated quality of good leaders:

You leave a meeting with them more energized.

Underrated quality of awful leaders:

They try to please everyone and lead by committee.

You invest in people, not companies.

My best investments have been companies with a great leader. (Worst have had terrible ones.)

Want to gain influence and respect? 

1) Admit when you f-ed up. 

2) Give credit/kudos freely & often.

[Thread link](https://twitter.com/Codie_Sanchez/status/1607746659227688962)