---
author: "DAN KOE"
handle: "@thedankoe"
source: "https://twitter.com/thedankoe/status/1597615967131078656"
date: "November 29, 2022 10:38 PM"
fetched: "November 30, 2022 8:16 PM"
likes: 1764
retweets: 346
replies: 59
---
DAN KOE ([@thedankoe](https://twitter.com/thedankoe)) - November 29, 2022 10:38 PM

Skill stacking is powerful.

Here are the 6 skills I would stack (to maximize profits, opportunities, and irreplaceability):

1) Rapid Learning

To learn faster, don't start learning.

- Outline a project
- Start building it out
- Learn along the way

Too many people get trapped in tutorial hell, stacking up useless knowledge as brain fog.

Start > encounter a problem > seek specific knowledge to solve.

Learning one thing makes it 10x easier to learn a related skill.

To learn photoshop, I:

- Had a starting point in mind
- Struggled with the software
- Watched tutorials to learn

By mastering photoshop, I can pick up any photo/video editing software in a matter of hours.

2) Rapid Execution

First-time perfection with your product, hobby projects, or content is a myth.

You have to get the embarrassing iteration out of the way.

That's all success is:

Creating a better version AS you learn more through experience, not theory.

When you:

- Start
- Build
- Teach
- Get feedback
- Fill in knowledge gaps
- Pivot accordingly
- Repeat

It's impossible to fail.

The real failure is not starting at all.

I talk about both learning & execution in this video:
[youtu.be/2L0TjTIHEFo](https://youtu.be/2L0TjTIHEFo)

3) Marketing & Sales

Money, career, and life opportunities are transactional.

This isn't a bad thing (if it's of mutual benefit).

So, you need to understand what humans want.

In other words, you need to understand psychology.

Marketing and sales are just applied psychology and human nature.

What do people want the most?

Transformations.

There's a reason transformation stories, videos, and posts do so well.

People want a higher quality human experience.

Give it to them.

4) Writing

If you want any form of success, you will have to communicate with other people.

Most of the time, this will be in writing.

Emails, tweets, DMs, resumes, video scripts, captions, etc.

Writing is the foundation of media, and media is how you capture attention.

But, capturing attention isn't where the money is.

Anyone can write a good hook, but can you hold the attention in a world of distraction and deliver a valuable message?

A good metric for internet success is how much attention you *hold* over your career.

5) Visual Design

By now, we can articulate a valuable message with a marketable transformation (storytelling).

You 10x the impact of your message when you can distribute it via various mediums.

Video and graphics.

That's how you add a FEEL to your message.

Another dimension.

Here are practical skills you can study to start training your 'designers eye:'

- Photography
- Graphic design
- Filmmaking or videography
- Editing or color grading
- Brand design

Spend a weekend learning the fundamentals.

Use those fundamentals in everything you do.

6) Networking

So far, we've:

- Built something of value
- Can communicate that value
- Have iterated on that value

Now, we need to get it in front of people's face so we can make an income and spread our message.

When you are just starting out, you don't have any leverage.

No following, no customer base, etc.

You will have to put time and effort into finding customers and building a network.

This is exactly how I would do it:
[twitter.com/thedankoe/stat…](https://twitter.com/thedankoe/status/1534877477620879362)

> DAN KOE ([@thedankoe](https://twitter.com/thedankoe)) - June 9, 2022 7:38 PM
> 
> 
> Most people suck at DMs.
> 
> "Hi"
> "How are you"
> "Please follow back"
> 
> Will probably get you blocked more than it gets responses.
> 
> Let me make DMs easy for you in 7 steps:

In order, stack these skills according to your interests and expertise:

- Rapid learning
- Rapid execution
- Marketing & sales
- Writing
- Visual Design
- Networking

Give yourself 1 year and you will become an unstoppable force in the new economy.

[Thread link](https://twitter.com/thedankoe/status/1597615967131078656)